.TH watchsys 1

.SH NAME
watchsys \- script for basic system monitoring and prevention.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B watchsys
[OPTION]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
WatchSys is a set of bash shell scripts that run from a central daemon 
for basic monitoring of a linux server processes, cpu usage, 
network connections, ram usage, disk usage, file changes, etc...

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display the script options
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR
initialize a daemon to monitor the system
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR
stop the daemon
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-status\fR
display the daemon status and pid if running

.SH SERVICES

.PP
On 
.B /etc/watchsys/proc.list
You can add a list of services to monitor. If one is down it 
will be restarted by executing the default system command,
which is auto-detected and can be: 

.TP
1. systemctl start <service_name>
.TP
2. service <service_name>
.TP
3. /etc/init.d/<service_name>

.PP
Also, if you are monitoring a custom process you can specify a custom
command to restart it.

Example content of this file:
 
# [Process Name] : [Service Name] : [Start Command]
.TP
apache : apache2 : default
.TP
hiawatha : hiawatha : -c /etc/hiawatha/hiawatha-custom.conf
.TP
named : bind9 : default

.SH SERVERS

.PP
On 
.B /etc/watchsys/server.list 
you can put a list of hostnames or ip's which 
are ping to see if they are alive.

Example of this file:

# [Server] : [Port]
.TP
my-domain.com : none
.TP
my-domain.com : 80
.TP
mail.my-domain.com : 143

.PP
As you see 
.B none 
is used when we want to monitor a server online
status, but not a service on a specific port.

.SH SETTINGS
You can modify the script settings by editing /etc/watchsys/watchsys.conf

.TP
.B EMAIL_TO = '<email>'
An email is sent to the following address when an important
system event is triggered, like critical cpu or ram usage,
service crashes, network status, file changes, etc...
(Default: root)

.TP
.B CUSTOM_EMAIL_COMMAND = '<command>'
If a custom e-mail command is given, it will be used to send all
e-mail notifications. This command will receive 3 parameters:
$email, $subject and $email_message_file. $email_message_file is
a path to a file that contains the message text. For example:
If you set the command to /usr/bin/mycommand it will be called
as follows: 

/usr/bin/mycommand $email $subject $email_message_file

Leave empty for default. (Default: "mail")

.TP
.B ALLOW_THREADING = <0|1>
Setting this value to 1 will launch a separate instance everytime
monitoring of a resource is needed which is faster than monitoring
in sequence. Set to 0 to disable. (Default: 1)

.PP
For other configuration options make sure to check
.B /etc/watchsys/watchsys.conf
which is documented with other options to control
monitor and e-mail intervals as values used when considering
a warning or critical status for a resource.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/doc/watchsys/LICENSE
.br
.B /usr/lib/watchsys/
.br
.B /usr/bin/watchsys
.br
.B /etc/watchsys/watchsys.conf
.br
.B /etc/watchsys/proc.list
.br
.B /etc/watchsys/server.list
.br
.B /etc/watchsys/dir.list

.SH AUTHOR
Jefferson González <jgmdev@gmail.com>

.SH LICENSE
GPLv3 <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>
